We will use sign language recognition
as our first application of HMMs.
For example, let's consider the signs I
and we and create HMMs for each of them.
Here's I.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
We is a little different.
Let's focus on the I gesture.
We'll use delta y as
our first feature here.
>> Wait a second.
Why don't we use delta x?
It looks like it would be easier to
differentiate the two words that way.
While delta y is pretty similar for
the both of them.
>> That's right.
But I want to show exactly
how powerful HMMs can be.
So I have purposefully
chosen a bad feature.
We'll actually still be able to tell
the difference between the two words
by the difference in timing.
Let's go through the process and
see how that works.
>> Okay, but sometimes it's hard to
visualize the derivative of a signal.
Let's have a quiz first to make sure we
understand what you're talking about.